Huberantha mossambicensis
Critically Endangered (Possibly Extinct) B2ab(iii)
Mozambique
This species is known only from a single locality, the Gobene Forest of coastal Zambézia Province in northern Mozambique. It was last collected in 1968 and attempts to rediscover this species at Gobene in preparation for the Trees and Shrubs of Mozambique (Burrows et al. 2018) were unsuccessful. Most of the coastal forest habitat that this species occupied has been destroyed at Gobene, and replaced with coconut plantations and settlement with only small fragments of natural vegetation still extant and these are unprotected and highly threatened. With a single location and a continuing decline in extent and quality of habitat, this species is assessed as Critically Endangered (Possibly Extinct) - CR(PE) B2ab(iii). There is an urgent need to try to undertake further surveys for this species both at Gobene and at sites with intact fragments of coastal forest along the Mozambican coastline. Similar dune ridges to those of Gobene, with more intact vegetation, occur in parts of the Zambezi Delta and these may offer the best hope for rediscovering this species given that this habitat has been largely transformed in the Quelimane region (J. Burrows pers. comm. 2021).
Assessors:Darbyshire, I. & Rokni, S. 2022. 

Klarobelia subglobosa
Critically Endangered B2ab(i,iii); D
Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of
Klarobelia subglobosa is only known from the type locality in El Ávila National Park, in the surroundings of Caracas, were it occurs in semi-deciduous forest. This park faces a number of threats of which most immediate ones are forest fires and illegal settlements, not only around Caracas but also in the more isolated northern slope and eastern sector of El Ávila. The species is only known from the type collection. The population size is estimated to be less than 50 mature individuals (Chatrou and Pirie, 2005). Despite extensive explorations, reflected in Steyermark and Huber (1978) and Meier (1998), only a single specimen of this species has been collected so far. Therefore, based on criterion B (small area of occupancy, number of locations is one, and an inferred continuing decline in extent of occurrence and area, extent and/or quality of habitat) and criterion D (number of mature individuals < 50), this species was assessed as Critically Endangered (CR) B1ab(i,iii); D.
Assessors:Erkens, R.H.J. 2022. 

Dasymaschalon borneense
Critically Endangered B1ab(iii)+2ab(iii)
Indonesia (Kalimantan)
Dasymaschalon borneense is a small tree species endemic to East Kalimantan (Indonesia). It is only known from one locality in a mining concession. Therefore, the extent of occurrence (EOO) and area of occupancy (AOO) is given as 4 km2 and there is one location. Due to the threat of coal mining, this species is assessed as Critically Endangered.
Assessors:Hills, R., Verspagen, N. & Erkens, R.H.J. 2022. 

Disepalum acuminatissimum
Critically Endangered B1ab(iii)+2ab(iii)
Indonesia (Sumatera)
Disepalum acuminatissimum is endemic to Sumatera (Indonesia). It is only known from one collection from 1891. It was recorded in swamp forest and this area has undergone extensive habitat loss due to agriculture expansion. The one location gives a minimum extent of occurrence (EOO) and area of occupancy (AOO) of 4 km2. Therefore, it is assessed as Critically Endangered. There should be surveys to determine whether the species is still extant.
Assessors:Hills, R., Verspagen, N. & Erkens, R.H.J. 2022. 

Monoon sublanceolatum
Critically Endangered B1ab(iii)+2ab(iii)
Indonesia (Kalimantan)
Monoon sublanceolatum is endemic to Kalimantan (Indonesia). It is only known from the type collection at Gunung Pamaton. As this species is known from only one locality point the extent of occurrence (EOO) and area of occupancy (AOO) are given as 4 km2. The one location is a tourist attraction and is threatened by habitat loss and degradation. Therefore, this species is assessed as Critically Endangered.
Assessors:Verspagen, N., Erkens, R.H.J. & Hills, R. 2022. 

